Simple Test
===========
You probably got this package from...
http://sourceforge.net/projects/simpletest/

If there is no licence agreement with this package please download
the version above. You must read and accept that licence to use this
software. The file is titled simply LICENSE.

What is it? It's a framework for unit testing, web site testing and
mock objects for PHP 4.2.3+ (not yet PHP 5).

If you have used JUnit you will find this PHP unit testing version very
similar. Also included is a mock objects and server stubs generator.
The stubs can have return values set for different arguments, can have
sequences set also by arguments and can return items by reference.
The mocks inherit all of this functionality and can also have
expectations set, again in sequences and for different arguments.

You are not tied to SimpleTest, though. The mocks and stubs will work
with other test frameworks and SimpleTest can use other framework's
(PHPUnit, PEAR::PhpUnit) test cases as it's own.

You can see a release schedule at
http://www.lastcraft.com/overview.php which is also copied to the
documentation folder with this release. The user interface is minimal
in the extreme, but a lot of information flows from the test suite.
Before version 1.0 I will release a better web UI, but am leaving XUL
and GTk versions to volunteers as everybody has their own opinion
on a good GUI and I don't want to discourage development by shipping
one with the toolkit.

You are looking at a Beta release.

The unit tester and mock object generator are tested and have already
been used to test several systems. There are some minor message display
bugs, but these components are otherwise stable. The web testing is
definitely not stable and should be treated with caution. In
particular, very few HTML widgets are recognised (input and textarea).
Also this part has not been used much and so sugar needs to be
sprinkled liberally on the interfaces.

The unit tests for SimpleTest itself can be run here...

simpletest/test/unit_tests.php

And tests involving live network connections as well are here...

simpletest/test/all_tests.php

The full tests read some test data from the LastCraft site. If the site
is down or has been modified for a later version then you will get
spurious errors. A normal unit test failure on the other hand would be
very serious. As far as I know I haven't yet managed to check in any
test failures so please correct me if you find one.

Even if all of the tests run please verify that your existing test suites
also function as expected. If they don't see the file...

HELP_MY_TESTS_DONT_WORK_ANYMORE

This contains information on interface changes. It also points out
deprecated interfaces so you should read this even if all of
your current tests appear to run.

As an early release it doesn't have much in the way of documentation.
You can find a tutorial on http://www.lastcraft.com/first_test_tutorial.php to
get you started and hopefully this material will eventually become included
with the project documentation. There is a documentation folder, but it is
just a subset of the material on the LastCraft web site. I am working on
a PHPDocumentor version using the code comments for a mid Beta release.

If you download and use and possibly even extend this tool, please let me
know. Any feedback, even bad, is always welcome and I will work to get
your suggestions into the version one release. Ideally please send your
comments to...

simpletest-support@lists.sourceforge.net

...so that others can read them too. I will try to respond within 24 hours.

There is no change log as yet except at sourceforge. You can visit the
trackers to see the completed TODO list after each cycle and also the
status of any bugs, but if the bug is recent then it will be fixed in CVS only.
The CVS uploads always have all the tests passing and so CVS snapshots should
be pretty usable, although the code may not look so good internally.

Oh, yes. It is called "Simple" because it should be simple to
use. I intend to add a complete set of tools for a test first
and "test as you code" type of development. "Simple" does not
mean "Lite" in this context; I wish I had given it a better name :(.

yours, Marcus.

Thanks to Harry Fuecks for much feedback, packaging and suggestions and also
for a great website (http://www.phppatterns.com/). :-)

Thanks to Mathieu Kooiman, Jon Ramsey, Jeff Moore, Jason Sweat, Chris Hubbard
and others for bug reports and suggestions.

Thanks to everyone else who has sent comments. If I have
failed to credit you please let me know.

Thanks to the advanced PHP forum on SitePoint. It is the place to be right
now.
-- 
marcus@lastcraft.com
